slides/presentation.md, before:

# **Web components** through the eyes of a newcomer
### Design 4 Drupal - December 3, 2020
##### Slide Link

---

## Brian Perry
* Lead Front End Dev at Bounteous
* Rocking the Chicago ‘burbs
* Lover of all things components... …and Nintendo

![Right](images/Picture1.png)

---

# Bounteous slide

---

# Component based approaches

Component based approaches have taken over the web

* Atomic Design
* Frameworks

^ Speaker notes

---

# What are web components

How do they differ from 'components'

Like React, right? Well not really.

---

# I'm not an expert

---

I want to learn why I'm not using this stuff

This should be the component lover's dream

---

# Experts in the community

Brian
Others

---

# An example - caniuse

---

# Using a web component

* NPM Install the thing
* A custom element
* The Shadow DOM
  * Drop it into a MAGA style website

---

# Building a web component

* election tracker example

---

# Buildless steps

* Hello world - just render text to the screen
  * Limitation - Sure would like to use templating
  * What happened to the template spec?
* Take in and render props
  * Limitation - attributes are only strings
* Re-render based on changes

---

# Pros and Cons to Going Buildless

Pros:
* More browser native

Cons:
* Build tools can actually be really nice.
* Frameworks take care of tons of boilerplate.

---

# Compare Buildless to Framework

Examples of boilerplate that framework takes care of

* Templating
* Parsing data types
* Observing properties

---

# So. Many. Frameworks.

---

# Polymer

* Lit Element
* Lit HTML

---

# Stencil

---

# Using web components with a framework

---

# My more educated views on web components

On an infinite timescale, web components will win.

But how infinite? And will it be this version of Web Components?

Commit message:

Minor fixes and slide updates

slides/presentation.md, after:

# **Web components** through the eyes of a newcomer
### Design 4 Drupal - December 2, 2020
##### [https://bit.ly/d4dwc](https://bit.ly/d4dwc)

---

## Brian Perry
* Lead Front End Dev at Bounteous
* Rocking the Chicago ‘burbs
* Lover of all things components... and Nintendo

d.o: brianperrytwitter: bricomedygithub: backlineint
nintendo: wabrian

![Right fit](images/Picture1.png)

---

![](images/bounteous.jpg)

^ Special shout outs to Andy Olsen for helping me crack the code on this,
along with the NEDCamp BOF Session

---

# [fit] Component based approaches
# [fit]have taken over the web

![right fit](images/atomic-design.png)

---

# What are web components

How do they differ from 'components'

Like React, right? Well not really.

---

# I'm not an expert

---

I want to learn why I'm not using this stuff

This should be the component lover's dream

---

# Experts in the community

Brian
Others

---

# An example - caniuse

---

# Using a web component

* NPM Install the thing
* A custom element
* The Shadow DOM
  * Drop it into a MAGA style website

---

# Building a web component

* election tracker example

---

# Buildless steps

* Hello world - just render text to the screen
  * Limitation - Sure would like to use templating
  * What happened to the template spec?
* Take in and render props
  * Limitation - attributes are only strings
* Re-render based on changes

---

# Pros and Cons to Going Buildless

Pros:
* More browser native

Cons:
* Build tools can actually be really nice.
* Frameworks take care of tons of boilerplate.

---

# Compare Buildless to Framework

Examples of boilerplate that framework takes care of

* Templating
* Parsing data types
* Observing properties

---

# So. Many. Frameworks.

---

# Polymer

* Lit Element
* Lit HTML

---

# Stencil

---

# Using web components with a framework

---

# My more educated views on web components

On an infinite timescale, web components will win.

But how infinite? And will it be this version of Web Components?
